Galadriel: The world is changed. I feel it in the water. I feel it in the Earth. I smell it in the air. Much that once was is lost. For none now live who remember it.
Galadriel: It began with the forging of the great rings.
Galadriel: Three were given to the Elves, immortal, wisest and fairest of all beings. Seven to the Dwarf lords, great miners and craftsmen of the mountain halls. And nine, nine rings were gifted to the race of Men, who above all else, desire power.
Galadriel: For within these rings was bound the strength and will to govern each race. But they were all of them deceived, for another ring was made. In the land of Mordor, in the fires of Mount Doom, the Dark Lord Sauron forged in secret a master ring, to control all others. And into this Ring, he poured his cruelty, his malice and his will to dominate all life. One Ring to rule them all.
Galadriel: One by one, free lands in Middle-Earth fell to the power of the Ring. But there were some who resisted. A last alliance of Men and Elves marched against the armies of Mordor and on the slopes of Mount Doom they fought for the freedom of Middle-Earth.
Elrond: Hold your positions! Fire the arrows!
Galadriel: Victory was near. But the power of the Ring could not be undone.
Galadriel: It was in this moment when all hope had faded, that Isildur, son of the King, took up his father's sword.
Galadriel: Sauron, the enemy of the free-peoples of Middle-Earth was defeated. The Ring passed to Isildur, who had this one chance to destroy evil forever. But the hearts of men are easily corrupted. And the Ring of Power has a will of its own.
Galadriel: It betrayed Isildur to his death. And some things that should not have been forgotten were lost. History became legend, legend became myth and for two and a half thousand years, the Ring passed out of all knowledge. Until, when chance came, it ensnared a new bearer.
Gollum: My Precious!
Galadriel: The Ring came to the creature Gollum, who took it deep into the tunnels of the Misty Mountains. And there, it consumed him.
Gollum: It came to me, my own, my love, my own, my Precious! gollum!
Galadriel: The Ring brought to Gollum unnatural long life. For five hundred years it poisoned his mind. And in the gloom of Gollum's cave, it waited. Darkness crept back into the forest of the world. Rumor grew of a shadow in the east, whispers of a nameless fear, and the Ring of Power perceived. Its time had now come. It abandoned Gollum. But something happened then the Ring did not intend. It was picked up by the most unlikely creature imaginable.	
Bilbo: What’s this	
Galadriel: A Hobbit, Bilbo Baggins of the Shire.	
Bilbo: A ring.	
Gollum: Lost! My precious is lost!	
Galadriel: For the time soon come when Hobbits will shape the fortunes of all.
Bilbo: The 22nd day of September in the year 1400 by Shire reckoning. Bag End, Bagshot Row, Hobbiton, West Farthing, The Shire, Middle Earth. The Third Age of this world.
Bilbo: There and back again, A Hobbit's tale, by Bilbo Baggins. Now, where to begin? Ah, yes. Concerning Hobbits.
Bilbo: Hobbits have been living and farming in the four Farthings of the Shire for many hundreds of years. Quite content to ignore and be ignored by the world of the Big Folk. Middle Earth being, after all, full of strange creatures beyond count. Hobbits must seem of little importance, being neither renowned as great warriors, nor counted amongst the very wise.
Bilbo: Frodo, someone at the door. In fact, it has been remarked by some that Hobbits only real passion is for food. A rather unfair observation, as we have also developed a keen interest in the brewing of ales and the smoking of pipeweed. But where our hearts truly lie is in peace and quiet and good tilled earth. For all Hobbits share a love of all things that grow. And yes, no doubt to others, our ways seem quaint. But today of all days, it is brought home to me it is no bad thing to celebrate a simple life.
Bilbo: Frodo, the door! Sticklebacks, where is that boy! FRODO!
Gandalf: Down from the door where it began
Gandalf: And I must follow if I can. The road goes ever on and on down from the door where it began. Now far ahead the road has gone, and I must follow if I can...
Frodo: You're late!
Gandalf: A wizard is never late, Frodo Baggins. Nor is he early. He arrives precisely when he means to.
Frodo: Its wonderful to see you Gandalf!
Gandalf: Ooh! You didn’t think I’d miss your Uncle Bilbo's birthday?
Gandalf: So how is the old rascal? I hear it’s got to be a party of special magnificence.
Frodo: You know Bilbo, he's got the whole place in an uproar.
Gandalf: Well now that should please him.
Frodo: Half the Shire’s been invited. And the rest of them are turning up anyway.
Bilbo: And so life in the Shire goes on, very much as it has this past age. Full of its own comings and goings with change coming slowly, if it comes at all. For things are made to endure in the Shire, passing from one generation to the next. There's always been a Baggins living here under the Hill, in Bag End.
Bilbo: And there always will be. 
Frodo: To tell you the truth, Bilbo has been acting a bit odd lately. I mean, more than usual. He's taken to locking himself in his study. He spends hours and hours poring over old maps when he thinks I'm not looking.  
Bilbo: Where's it gone? 
Frodo: He is up to something.
Gandalf: Oh really... 
Frodo: All right then keep your secrets.
Gandalf: What?
Frodo: I know you have something to do with it.
Gandalf: Good gracious me! 
Frodo: Before you came along we Bagginses were very well thought of.
Gandalf: Indeed?
Frodo: Never had any adventures or did anything unexpected.
Gandalf: If you’re referring to the incident with the dragon, I was barely involved. All I did was give your uncle a little nudge out of the door.
Frodo: Whatever you did, you’ve been officially labeled a disturber of the peace.
Gandalf: Oh really? 
Hobbits: Gandalf! Gandalf! Fireworks? Gandalf?
Frodo: Gandalf, I'm glad you're back.
Gandalf: So am I dear boy! So am I.
Bilbo: No thank you! We don't want any more visitors, well-wishers or distant relations!
Gandalf: And what about very old friends?
Bilbo: Gandalf?
Gandalf: Bilbo Baggins!
Bilbo: My dear Gandalf! 
Gandalf: Good to see you! One hundred and eleven years old --who would believe it? You haven't aged a day.
Bilbo: Come on, come in! Welcome, welcome! Oh, here we are. 
Bilbo: Tea? Or maybe something a little stronger? I've got a few bottles of the Old Winyard left. 1296 --very good year. Almost as old as I am! Hahaha! It was laid down by my father. What say we open one, eh?
Gandalf: Just tea, thank you.
Bilbo: I was expecting you here last week! Not that it matters, you come and go as you please. Always have done and always will.
Bilbo: You caught me a bit unprepared, I'm afraid. We have some cold chicken and pickles... Here's some cheese here- oh no it won't do. There we got raspberry jam and apple tart... Not much for afterlunch - oh no! We're all right. I have some cake. I can make you some eggs if you like-- oh. Gandalf?
Gandalf: Just tea, thank you.
Bilbo: Alright! You don't mind if I eat, do you?
Gandalf: Oh no, not at all.
Hobbit: Bilbo! Bilbo Baggins!
Bilbo: I'm not at home! It's the Sackville-Bagginses.
Hobbit: I know you're in there! 
Bilbo:	They're after the house! They've never forgiven me for living this long. I've got to get away from these confounded relatives hanging on the bell--they never give me a moment's peace! I want to see mountains again, mountains Gandalf! And then find somewhere quiet where I can finish my book. Oh, tea!
Gandalf: So, you mean to go through with your plan, then.
Bilbo: Yes, yes. It's all in hand. All the arrangements are made. Oh, thank you.
Gandalf: Frodo suspects something.
Bilbo: Of course he does. He's a Baggins! Not some block-headed Bracegirdle from Hardbottle.
Gandalf: You will tell him, won't you?
Bilbo: Yes, yes.
Gandalf: He's very fond of you.
Bilbo: I know. He'd probably come with me if I asked him . I think in his heart Frodo is still in love with the Shire: the woods, the fields...little rivers. I'm old Gandalf. I know I don't look it, but I'm beginning to feel it in my heart. I feel thin --sort of stretched like butter scraped over too much bread. I need a holiday, a very long holiday, and I don't expect I shall return. In fact, I mean not to!
Bilbo: Old Toby. The finest weed in the Southfarthing. 
Bilbo: Gandalf, my old friend. This will be a night to remember!
Bilbo: Hello, hello, Fatty Bolger, lovely to see you! Welcome, welcome!
Frodo: Go on Sam! Ask Rosie for a dance. 
Sam: I think I’ll just have another ale. 
Frodo: Oh no you don’t. Go on. 
Bilbo: There I was, at the mercy of three monstrous trolls! And they were all arguing amongst themselves about how they were going to cook us, whether it be turned on a spit or whether they should sit on us one by one and squash us into jelly. 
Bilbo: They spent so much time arguing the wither-tos and why-fors, that when the sun’s first light cracked over the top of the trees and poof!
Bilbo: It turned them all to stone!
Merry: Quickly!
Gandalf: Whoa! Off they go. 
Merry: No, no the big one, big one!
Bilbo: Mrs Bracegirdle, how nice to see you. Welcome welcome. Are all these children yours?
Mrs Bracegirdle: Yeah
Bilbo: Good gracious you have been productive!
Bilbo: Sackville-Bagginses! Quickly! Hide!
Bilbo: Oh! Thankyou my boy You're a good lad Frodo. I'm very selfish you know. Yes, I am.  Very selfish. I don't know why I took you in after your mother and father died, but it wasn't out of charity. I think it was because, of all my numerous relations, you were the one Baggins that showed real spirit.  
Frodo: Bilbo have you been at the Gaffers homebrew?
Bilbo: No. Well yes, but thats not the point. The point is, Frodo, you'll be alright.
Pippin: Done.
Merry: You’re supposed to stick it in the ground! 
Pippin: It is in the ground. 
Merry: Outside! 
Pippin: It was your idea!
Hobbit: Look at that!
Frodo: Bilbo? Bilbo, look out for the dragon! 
Bilbo: Dragon? Nonsense! There hasn’t been a dragon in these parts for a thousand years...
Merry: That was good!
Pippin: Let’s get another one!
Gandalf: Meriadoc Brandybuck and Peregrin Took. I might have known.
Hobbits: Speech, Bilbo! Speech! 
Frodo: Speech! 
Bilbo: My dear Bagginses and Boffins, and Proudfoots. 
Proudfoot Hobbit: Proudfeet!
Bilbo: Today is my 111th birthday! 
Hobbits: Happy birthday! 
Bilbo: Alas, eleventy-one years is far too short a time to live among such excellent and admirable hobbits. 
Bilbo: I, uh, I h-have things to do.  I've put this off for far too long. I regret to announce This is the End. I'm going now.  I bid you all a very fond farewell. Goodbye.
Hobbits: Ooh! 
Gandalf: I suppose you think that was terribly clever.
Bilbo: Come on Gandalf! Did you see their faces? 
Gandalf: There are many magic rings in this world Bilbo Baggins and none of them should be used lightly. 
Bilbo: It was just a bit of fun! Oh you’re probably right, as usual. You will keep an eye on Frodo, won’t you? 
Gandalf: Two eyes, as often as I can spare them. 
Bilbo: I’m leaving everything to him. 
Gandalf: What about this Ring of yours, is that staying too? 
Bilbo: Yes, yes. It’s in an envelope over there on the mantelpiece. 
Bilbo: No, wait, its --here in my pocket. Heh, isn’t that, isn’t that odd though? Yet, after all why not? Why shouldn’t I keep it? 
Gandalf: I think you should leave the Ring behind, Bilbo. Is that so hard? 
Bilbo: Well no... and yes! Now it comes to it, I don’t feel like parting with it, its mine, I found it, it came to me! 
Gandalf: There’s no need to get angry. 
Bilbo: What if I’m angry, it’s your fault! It’s mine! My own, my precious. 
Gandalf: Precious? Its been called that before, but not by you. 
Bilbo: Argh! What business is it of yours what I do with my own things! 
Gandalf: I think you’ve had that Ring quite long enough. 
Bilbo: You want it for yourself! 
Gandalf: Bilbo Baggins! Do not take me for some conjurer of cheap tricks. I am not trying to rob you. I’m trying to help you. 
Gandalf: All your long years we’ve been friends. Trust me as you once did, hmm? Let it go. 
Bilbo: You’re right Gandalf, the Ring must go to Frodo. It’s late, the road is long. Yes it is time.
Gandalf: Bilbo...
Bilbo: Hmm?
Gandalf: ...the Ring is still in your pocket. 
Bilbo: Oh, yes... 
Bilbo: I’ve thought of an ending for my book. And he lived happily ever after...to the end of his days. 
Gandalf: And I’m sure you will my dear friend. 
Bilbo: Goodbye, Gandalf. 
Gandalf: Goodbye, dear Bilbo.
Bilbo: The road goes ever on and on, down from the door where it began... 
Gandalf: Until our next meeting.
Bilbo: It's mine. My own, My precious
Gandalf: Riddles in the Dark.
Frodo: Bilbo! Bilbo! 
Gandalf: My precious.
Frodo: He's gone hasn't he? He talked for so long about leaving. I didn't think he'd really do it. 
Frodo: Gandalf? 
Gandalf: Hmm. Bilbo's Ring, along with all his possessions. The Ring is yours now. Put it somewhere out of sight.
Frodo: Where are you going? 
Gandalf: I have some things I have to attend to.
Frodo: What things? 
Gandalf: Questions. Questions that need answering! 
Frodo: But you've only just arrived! I don't understand. 
Gandalf: Neither do I. Keep it secret. Keep it safe. 
Gollum: Murder! Shire! Baggins!
Gandalf: Year 3434 of the Second Age. Here follows the account of Isildur, High King of Gondor and the finding of the Ring of Power. It has come to me, the One Ring. It shall be an heirloom of my kingdom. All that should follow in my bloodline shall be bound to its fate for I will risk no hurt to the Ring. It is precious to me, though I buy it with a great pain. The markings upon the band begin to fade. The writing, which at first was as clear as red flame, has all but disappeared. A secret now that only fire can tell.
Nazgûl: Shire. Baggins.
Hobbit: There's no Bagginses round here.  They're up in Hobbiton, That way!
Hobbit: There's been some strange folk crossing the Shire. Dwarves, others of a less than savoury nature.
Hobbit: War's brewing. The mountains are fair teeming with goblins.
Hobbit: Children's stories that's all that is.  You're beginning to sound like that old Bilbo Baggins! Cracked he was!
Hobbit: Young Mr Frodo here, he's cracking!
Frodo: and proud of it! Cheers Gaffer!
Hobbit: cheers.
Hobbit: Well it's none of our concern what goes on beyond our borders. Keep your nose out of trouble and no trouble will come to you.
Rosie: Goodnight lads!
Hobbit: Good night, sweet maiden of the golden ale!
Sam: Oi Mind who you're sweet talking!
Frodo: Don't worry Sam, Rosie knows an idiot when she sees one!
Sam: Does she?
Frodo: Goodnight Sam. 
Gandalf: Is it secret?! Is it safe?!
Frodo: Ah! 
Gandalf: Hold out your hand Frodo, it’s quite cool. What can you see? Can you see anything? 
Frodo: Nothing. There's nothing... wait. There are markings. It's some form of elvish. I can’t read it. 
Gandalf: There are few who can. The language is that of Mordor, which I will not utter here. 
Frodo: Mordor? 
Gandalf: In the common tongue it says, One Ring to rule them all, One Ring to find them. One Ring to bring them all and in the darkness bind them. 
Gandalf: This is the One Ring. Forged by the Dark Lord Sauron in the fires of Mount Doom. Taken by Isildur from the hand of Sauron himself. 
Frodo: Bilbo found it. In Gollum's cave. 
Gandalf: Yes. For sixty years the Ring lay quiet in Bilbo's keeping, prolonging his life, delaying old age. But no longer Frodo. Evil is stirring in Mordor. The Ring has awoken. It's heard its master's call. 
Frodo: But he was destroyed. Sauron was destroyed.
Ring: Isildur...
Gandalf: No, Frodo. The spirit of Sauron endured. His life force is bound to the Ring and the Ring survived. Sauron has returned. His orcs have multiplied. His fortress of Barad-Dur is rebuilt in the land of Mordor. Sauron needs only this Ring to cover all the lands of a second darkness. He is seeking it. Seeking it, all his thought is bent on it. The Ring yearns above all else to return to the hand of its master. They are one, the Ring and the Dark Lord. Frodo, he must never find it. 
Frodo: Alright, we put it away. We keep it hidden. We never speak of it again. No one knows it's here, do they? Do they Gandalf? 
Gandalf: There is one other who knew that Bilbo had the Ring. I looked everywhere for the creature Gollum. But the enemy found him first. I don’t know how long they tortured him. Amidst the endless screams and inane babble, they discerned two words.
Gollum: Shire!!! Baggins!!! 
Frodo: Shire. Baggins. But that would lead them here!
Hobbit: Who goes there?
Frodo: Take it Gandalf!
Gandalf: No Frodo. 
Frodo: You must take it! 
Gandalf: You cannot offer me this Ring! 
Frodo: I'm giving it to you! 
Gandalf: Don't tempt me Frodo! I dare not take it. Not even to keep it safe. Understand Frodo, I would use this Ring from the desire to do good. But through me, it would wield a power to great and terrible to imagine.
Frodo: But it cannot stay in the Shire! 
Gandalf: No! No it can't. 
Frodo: What must I do?
Gandalf: You must leave and leave quickly. 
Frodo: Where? Where do I go?
Gandalf: Get out of the Shire. Make for the village Bree. 
Frodo: Bree. What about you?
Gandalf: I'll be waiting for you, at the Inn of the Prancing Pony. 
Frodo: And the Ring will be safe there? 
Gandalf: I don't know Frodo. I don't have any answers. I must see the head of my order. He is both wise and powerful. Trust me Frodo, he’ll know what to do. You’ll have to leave the name of Baggins behind you, for that name is not safe outside the Shire. Travel only by day. And stay off the road. 
Frodo: I can cut across country easily enough. 
Gandalf: My dear Frodo. Hobbits really are amazing creatures! You can learn all that there is to know about their ways in a month, and yet after a hundred years, they can still surprise you. Get down! 
Gandalf: Get down!
Gandalf: Confound it all Samwise Gamgee! Have you been eavesdropping?!
Sam: I have been droppin’ no eves sir, honest. I was just cutting the grass under the window there, if you follow me. 
Gandalf: A little late for trimming the verge don’t you think? 
Sam: I heard raised voices. 
Gandalf: What did you hear?! Speak!!!! 
Sam: Nothing important. That is I heard a good deal about a Ring and a Dark Lord and something about the end of the world but... Please, Mister Gandalf sir, don’t hurt me. Don’t turn me into anythin’ --unnatural. 
Gandalf: No, perhaps not. I have thought of a better use for you... 
Gandalf: Come along Samwise, keep up! Be careful both of you. The enemy has many spies in his service: birds, beasts. Never put it on, for the agents of the Dark Lord will be drawn to its power. Always remember, Frodo, the Ring is trying to get back to its master. It wants to be found.
Sam: This is it.
Frodo: This is what?
Sam: I take one more step, it’ll be the farthest away from home I’ve ever been.
Frodo: Come on Sam. Remember what Bilbo used to say. Its a dangerous
Bilbo: Frodo, business going out your door. You step onto the road, and if you don’t keep your feet, there's no knowing where you might be swept off to.
Frodo: Sam! Wood elves!
Frodo: They're going to the harbour beyond the white towers To the Grey Havens
Sam: They're leaving Middle Earth
Frodo: Never to return
Sam: I don't know why.... It makes me sad
Sam: Everywhere I lie there's a dirty great root sticking into my back
Frodo: Just shut your eyes and imagine you're back in your own bed, with a soft matress and a lovely feather pillow
Sam: Its not working Mr Frodo Oh! I'm never going to be able to sleep out here
Frodo: Me neither Sam
Saruman: Smoke rises from the mountain of Doom. The hour grows late and Gandalf the Grey rides to Isengard seeking my counsel. For that is why you have come, is it not...my old friend? 
Gandalf: Saruman. 
Saruman: You are sure of this? 
Gandalf: Beyond any doubt. 
Saruman: So the Ring of Power has been found. 
Gandalf: All these long years it was in the Shire, under my very nose. 
Saruman: Yet you did not have the wit to see it. Your love of the halfling’s leaf has clearly slowed your mind. 
Gandalf: But we still have time. Time enough to counter Sauron if we act quickly. 
Saruman: Time?! What time do you think we have? 
Saruman: Sauron has regained much of his former strength. He cannot yet take physical form, but his spirit has lost none of its potency. Concealed within his fortress, the Lord of Mordor sees all -- his gaze pierces cloud, shadow, earth and flesh. You know of what I speak, Gandalf -- a great Eye... lidless... wreathed in flame.
Gandalf: The Eye of Sauron. 
Saruman: He is gathering all evil to him. Very soon he will summon an army great enough to launch an assault upon Middle Earth. 
Gandalf: You know this? How? 
Saruman: I have seen it. 
Gandalf: A Palantir is a dangerous tool, Saruman. 
Saruman: Why? Why should we fear to use it?
Gandalf: They are not all accounted for, the lost Seeing Stones. We do not know who else may be watching!
Saruman: The hour is later than you think. Sauron's forces are already moving. The Nine have left Minas Morgul. 
Gandalf: The Nine!
Saruman: They crossed the River Isen on Midsummer's Eve, disguised as riders in black. 
Gandalf: They've reached the Shire?! 
Saruman: They will find the Ring... and kill the one who carries it. 
Gandalf: Frodo! 
Saruman: You did not seriously think that a hobbit could contend with the will of Sauron? There are none who can. Against the power of Mordor there can be no victory. We must join with him, Gandalf. We must join with Sauron. It would be wise, my friend.
Gandalf: Tell me, friend, when did Saruman the wise abandon reason for madness?!
Saruman: I gave you the chance of aiding me willingly. But you...have elected...the way of pain! 
Sam: Mister Frodo? Frodo! Frodo!
Sam: I thought I’d lost you. 
Frodo: What are you talking about? 
Sam: It's just something Gandalf said. 
Frodo: What did he say? 
Sam: Don’t you lose him Samwise Gamgee! And I don't mean to. 
Frodo: Sam, we're still in the Shire. What could possibly happen? 
Pippin: Frodo? Merry! It's Frodo Baggins. 
Merry: Hello Frodo! 
Sam: Get off him! Frodo? Are you all right? 
Pippin: What's the meaning of this? 
Merry: Hold these.
Sam: You've been into Farmer Maggot's crop!
Merry: And these
Farmer Maggot: Wait till I get this through you!...Stay out of my fields! You ruffians I’ll catch up with you! 
Merry: Dunno why he is so upset. It’s only a couple of carrots!
Pippin: And some cabbages. And those few bags of potatoes that we lifted last week and, and the mushrooms the week before! 
Merry: Yes Pippin! My point is, he is clearly overreactin’. Run!
Pippin: Ooh! That was close 
Merry: Ow! I think I've broken something. 
Sam: Trust a Brandybuck and a Took! 
Merry: What?! That was just a detour, a shortcut. 
Sam: A shortcut to what? 
Pippin: Mushrooms!!!
Frodo: I think we should get off the road.
Frodo: Get off the road! Quick!
Sam: Shhh! Stop it! Be quiet!
Merry: What was that?
Pippin: Anything?
Frodo: Nothing.
Pippin: What is going on?
Merry: That Black Rider was looking for something... or someone. Frodo?
Sam: Get down!
Frodo: I have to leave the Shire. Sam and I must get to Bree.
Merry: Right. Buckleberry Ferry. Follow me.
Pippin: Run! 
Merry: Frodo, this way.  Follow me
Pippin: Frodo!
Merry: follow me! Run!
Merry: Get the rope Sam!
Sam: Frodo!
Pippin: Run Frodo!
Frodo: No!
Pippin: Frodo! Come on!
Sam: Frodo! Come on!
Pippin: Frodo!
Sam: Come on faster!
Frodo: How far to the nearest crossing?
Merry: Brandywine Bridge, Twenty miles.
Frodo: Come on.
Gatekeeper: What do you want?
Frodo: We’re heading for the Prancing Pony.
Gatekeeper: Hobbits! Four hobbits! What business brings you to Bree?
Frodo: We wish to stay at the inn. Our business is our own.
Gatekeeper: Alright young sir, I meant no offence. ‘Tis my job to ask question after nightfall. There’s talk of strange folk abroad. Can’t be too careful.
Men of Bree: Move! Watch where you're going!
Frodo: Excuse me?
Butterbur: Good evening little masters! If you’re seeking accommodation we’ve got some nice, cozy, hobbit-sized rooms available. Mr. uh--
Frodo: Underhill, my name’s Underhill.
Butterbur: Underhill. Yes...
Frodo: We’re friends of Gandalf the Grey. Can you tell him we’ve arrived?
Butterbur: Gandalf? Gandalf? Ohhh yes! I remember, elderly chap, big gray beard, pointy hat. Not seen him for 6 months.
Sam: What do we do now?
Frodo: Sam. He’ll be here. He’ll come.
Pippin: What’s that?
Merry: This my friend, is a pint.
Pippin: It comes in pints? I’m getting one. 
Sam: You had a whole half already!
Sam: That fellow’s done nothin’ but starin’ at us since we arrived.
Frodo: Excuse me, that man in the corner, who is he?
Butterbur: He’s one of them rangers. Dangerous folk they are-- all wandering the wilds. What his right name is I’ve never heard but around here, he’s known as Strider.
Frodo: Strider...
Ring: Baggins. Baggins. Baggins. Baggins! Baggins!...
Pippin: Baggins? Sure I know a Baggins!  He's over there.  Frodo Baggins! He's my second cousin once removed on his mother's side and my third cousin twice removed on his father's side, if you follow me.
Pippin: and my third cousin twice removed on his father's side, if you follow me.
Frodo: Pippin! 
Pippin: Steady on!
Sauron: You cannot hide! I see you! There is no life in the void, only death!
Frodo: Ah! 
Aragorn: You draw far too much attention to yourself Mr. Underhill! 
Frodo: What do you want?
Aragorn: A little more caution from you. That is no trinket you carry.
Frodo: I carry nothing.
Aragorn: Indeed.
Aragorn: I can avoid being seen if I wish. But to disappear entirely, that is a rare gift.
Frodo: Who are you?
Aragorn: Are you frightened?
Frodo: Yes.
Aragorn: Not nearly frightened enough. I know what hunts you.
Sam: Let him go! Or I’ll have you Longshanks!
Aragorn: You have a stout heart little hobbit, but that will not save you. You can no longer wait for the wizard Frodo. They’re coming.
Frodo: What are they?
Aragorn: They were once men. Great kings of Men. Then Sauron the Deceiver gave to them nine Rings of Power. Blinded by their greed, they took them without question. One by one falling into darkness. Now they are slaves to his will. They are the Nazgul, Ringwraiths, neither living nor dead. At all times they feel the presence of the Ring. Drawn to the power of the One. They will never stop hunting you.
Frodo: Where are you taking us?
Aragorn: Into the wild.
Merry: How do we know this Strider is a friend of Gandalf’s?
Frodo: I think a servant of the enemy would look fairer, but feel fouler.
Merry: He's foul enough
Frodo: We have no choice but to trust him
Sam: But where is he leading us?
Aragorn: To Rivendell Master Gamgee, The House of Elrond.
Sam: Did you hear that? Rivendell! We’re going to see the elves!
Aragorn: Gentlemen, we do not stop till nightfall.
Pippin: What about breakfast?
Aragorn: We’ve already had it.
Pippin: We've had one yes. What about second breakfast?
Merry: Don't think he knows about second breakfast Pippin.
Pippin: What about elevenses? Luncheon? Afternoon tea? Dinner? Supper? He knows about them doesn’t he?
Merry: I wouldn't count on it.
Merry: Pippin!
Merry: What are they eating when they can't get hobbit?
Aragorn: Tin'viel elvanui, Immortal maiden elven-wise, About him cast her night-dark hair, And arms like silver glimmering.
Frodo: Who is she? This woman you sing of? 
Aragorn: Tis the Lady of Luthien. The Elf Maiden who gave her love to Beren ... a mortal
Frodo: What happened to her?
Aragorn: She died. Get some sleep Frodo
Saruman: The power of Isengard is at your command, Sauron, Lord of the Earth.
Sauron: Build me an army worthy of Mordor!
Orc: What orders from Mordor my Lord? What does the Eye command?
Saruman: We have work to do!
Orc: The trees are strong, my Lord. Their roots go deep.
Saruman: Rip them all down.
Aragorn: This was the great watchtower of Amon Sul. We shall rest here tonight.
Aragorn: These are for you. Keep them close. I’m going to have a look around. Stay here.
Merry: My tomato's burst!
Pippin: Can I have some bacon?
Merry: Ok. Want some tomatoes Sam?
Frodo: What are you doing?!
Merry: Tomatoes, sausages, nice crispy bacon.
Sam: We saved some for you Mr. Frodo.
Frodo: Put it out you fools! Put it out!
Pippin: Oh that’s nice! Ash on my tomatoes!
Frodo: Go!
Sam: Back you devils!
Sam: Frodo! 
Frodo: Oh Sam!
Sam: Strider! Help him Strider.
Aragorn: He’s been stabbed by a Morgul blade. This is beyond my skill to heal. He needs elvish medicine.
Aragorn: Hurry!
Sam: It's six days from Rivendell! He'll never make it!
Frodo: Gandalf...
Gandalf: Gwaihir. Go, Gwaihir.
Sam: Look Frodo.  It's Mr Bilbo's trolls
Sam: He’s going cold!
Pippin: Is he going to die?
Aragorn: He’s passing into the shadow world. He will soon become a wraith like them.
Merry: They’re close.
Aragorn: Sam, do you know Athelas plant?
Sam: Athelas?
Aragorn: Kingsfoil.
Sam: Kingsfoil, aye, that's a weed.
Aragorn: It may help to slow the poison. Hurry!
Arwen: What’s this? A ranger caught off his guard?
Arwen: Frodo.... I'm Arwen. I have come to help you. Hear my voice. Come back to the light
Merry: Who is she?
Arwen: Frodo!
Sam: She's an elf. 
Arwen: He's fading! 
Arwen: He's not going to last. We must get him to my father. I’ve been looking for you for 2 days. 
Arwen: There are 5 wraiths behind you. Where the other four are, I do not know.
Aragorn: Stay with the Hobbits. I will send horses for you.
Arwen: I'm the faster rider. I'll take him.
Aragorn: The road is too dangerous.
Pippin: What are they saying? 
Arwen: Frodo's dying. If I can get across the river, the power of my people will protect him.
Arwen: I do not fear them.
Aragorn: As you wish.
Aragorn: Ride hard. Don’t look back! 
Arwen: Ride fast, Asfaloth, ride fast!
Sam: What are you doing?! Those wraiths are still out there! 
Arwen: Ride fast Asfaloth!!!
Nazgûl: Give up the halffling she-elf!
Arwen: If you want him, come and claim him!
Arwen: Waters of the Misty Mountains listen to the great word, flow waters of Loudwater, against the Ringwraiths! 
Arwen: No! Frodo...No! Frodo, don’t give in! Not now!
Arwen: What grace is given me, let it pass to him, let him be spared, save him.
Elrond: Hear my voice, come back to the light.
Frodo: Where am I?
Gandalf: You are in the house of Elrond. And it is 10 o’clock in the morning, on October the 24th if you want to know.
Frodo: Gandalf!
Gandalf: Yes...I’m here. And you're lucky to be here too. A few more hours and you would have been beyond our aid. But you have some strength in you, my dear hobbit! 
Frodo: What happened Gandalf? Why didn't you meet us? 
Gandalf: Oh I'm sorry Frodo... I was delayed. 
Saruman: The friendship with Saruman is not lightly thrown aside.
Saruman: One ill turn deserves another. It is over! Embrace the power of the Ring...or embrace your own destruction!
Gandalf: There is only one Lord of the Ring! Only one can bend it to his will. And he does not share power!
Saruman: So you have chosen death.
Frodo: Gandalf? What is it?
Gandalf: Nothing Frodo.
Sam: Frodo! Frodo!
Frodo: Sam!
Sam: Bless you, you're awake!
Gandalf: Sam has hardly left your side. 
Sam: We were that worried about you, weren't we Mr. Gandalf? 
Gandalf: By the skills of Lord Elrond, you're beginning to mend. 
Elrond: Welcome to Rivendell, Frodo Baggins. 
Frodo: Bilbo!
Bilbo: Hello Frodo my lad! 
Frodo: Bilbo! 
Frodo: There and Back Again: A Hobbit's Tale by Bilbo Baggins. This is wonderful!
Bilbo: I meant to go back...wander the paths of Mirkwood... visit Laketown...see the Lonely Mountain again. But age it seems have finally caught up with me. 
Frodo: I miss the Shire. I spent all my childhood, pretending I was off somewhere else...off with you on one of your adventures! My own adventure turned out to be quite different.
Frodo: I’m not like you Bilbo.
Bilbo: My dear boy. 
Sam: Now what have I forgotten?
Frodo: Packed already? 
Sam: No harm in being prepared. 
Frodo: I thought you wanted to see the elves Sam.
Sam: I do! 
Frodo: More than anything.
Sam: I did! Its just...we did what Gandalf wanted didn't we? We got the Ring this far to Rivendell and then I thought, seen’ as how you’re on the mend, we'd be off soon. Off home. 
Frodo: You're right Sam. We did what we set out to do. The Ring will be safe in Rivendell. I am ready to go home.
Elrond: His strength returns.
Gandalf: That wound will never fully heal. He will carry it the rest of his life. 
Elrond: And yet to have come so far, still bearing the Ring, the hobbit has shown extraordinary resilience to it's evil. 
Gandalf: It is a burden he should never have had to bear. We can ask no more of Frodo. 
Elrond: Gandalf, the enemy is moving. Sauron's forces are amassing in the east-- his eye is fixed on Rivendell. And Saruman you tell me has betrayed us. Our list of allies grows thin.
Gandalf: His treachery runs deeper than you know. By foul craft Saruman has crossed orcs with goblin-men, he's breeding an army in the caverns of Isengard. An army that can move in sunlight and cover great distance at speed. Saruman is coming for the Ring. 
Elrond: This evil cannot be concealed by the power of the Elves. We do not have the strength to fight both Mordor and Isengard!
Elrond: Gandalf, the Ring cannot stay here.
Elrond: This peril belongs to all middle earth. They must decide now how to end it. The time of the Elves is over-- my people are leaving these shores. Who will you look to when we've gone? The Dwarves? They hide in their mountains seeking riches-- they care nothing for the troubles of others. 
Gandalf: It is in Men that we must place our hope. 
Elrond: Men? Men are weak. The race of men is failing. The blood of Numenor is all but spent. It's pride and dignity forgotten. It is because of men the Ring survives. I was there Gandalf. I was there three thousand years ago...
Elrond: Isildur took the Ring. I was there the day the strength of men failed. 
Elrond: Isildur hurry. Follow me. 
Elrond: I led Isildur into the heart of Mount Doom, where the Ring was forged, the one place it could be destroyed.
Elrond: Cast it into the fire!
Elrond: Destroy it!
Isildur: No.
Elrond: Isildur!
Elrond: It should’ve ended that day, but evil was allowed to endure.
Elrond: Isildur kept the Ring. The line of kings is broken. There is no strength left in the world of men. They’re scattered, divided, leaderless. 
Gandalf: There is one who could unite them, one who could reclaim the throne of Gondor. 
Elrond: He turned from that path long time ago. He has chosen exile.
Boromir: You are no elf.
Aragorn: Men of the South are welcome here
Boromir: Who are you?
Aragorn: I'm a friend of Gandalf the Grey
Boromir: Then we are here on a common purpose friend.
Boromir: The shards of Narsil! The blade that cut the ring from Sauron's hand! 
Boromir: It's still sharp!
Boromir: No more than a broken heirloom! 
Arwen: Why do you fear the past? You are Isildur's heir, not Isildur himself. You are not bound to his fate.
Aragorn: The same blood flows in my veins. Same weakness. 
Arwen: Your time will come. You will face the same evil, and you will defeat it. The Shadow does not hold sway yet. Not over you and not over me.
Arwen: Do you remember the time when we first met?
Aragorn: I thought I had strayed into a dream.
Arwen: Long years have passed... You did not have the cares you carry now.
Arwen: Do you remember the word I told you?
Aragorn: You said you'd bind yourself to me. Forsaking the immortal life of your people. 
Arwen: And to that I hold. I would rather share one lifetime with you than face all the ages of this world alone. 
Arwen: I choose a mortal life.
Aragorn: You cannot give me this! 
Arwen: It is mine to give to whom I will...like my heart. 
Elrond: Strangers from distant lands, friends of old. You have been summoned here to answer the threat of Mordor. Middle-Earth stands upon the brink of destruction. None can escape it. You will unite or you will fall. Each race is bound to this fate this one doom. Bring forth the Ring, Frodo.
Boromir: So it is true...
Boromir: In a dream I saw the Eastern sky grow dark. In the West a pale light lingered A voice was crying, your doom is near at hand Isildur's bane is found Isildur's Bane
Boromir: Long has my father, the Steward of Gondor, kept the forces of Mordor at bay. By the blood of our people are your lands kept safe! Give Gondor the weapon of the enemy. Let us use it against him!
Elrond: Broromir!
Gandalf: One Ring to rule them all, One Ring to find them, One Ring to bring them all and in the Darkness bind them
Elrond: Never before has anyone uttered words of that tongue here in Imladris
Gandalf: I do not ask your pardon Master Elrond for the Black Speech of Mordor may yet be heard in every corner of the West. The Ring is altogether evil
Boromir: Aye it is a gift! A gift to the foes of Mordor. Why not use this Ring ? Long has my father, the Steward of Gondor kept the forces of Mordor at bey.  By the blood of our people are your lands kept safe.  Give Gondor the weapon of the enemy, let us use it against him
Aragorn: You cannot wield it! None of us can. The One Ring answers to Sauron alone. It has no other master.
Boromir: And what would a ranger know of this matter?
Legolas: This is no mere ranger. He is Aragorn, son of Arathorn. You owe him your allegiance.
Boromir: Aragorn? This... is Isildur's heir?
Legolas: And heir to the throne of Gondor.
Aragorn: Sit down, Legolas.
Boromir: Gondor has no king. Gondor needs no king. 
Gandalf: Aragorn is right. We cannot use it.
Elrond: You have only one choice. The Ring must be destroyed.
Gimli: What are we waiting for?
Elrond: The Ring cannot be destroyed, Gimli, son of Gloin by any craft that we here possess. The Ring was made in the fires of Mount Doom. Only there can it be unmade. It must be taken deep into Mordor and cast back into the fiery chasm from whence it came.
Elrond: One of you must do this.
Boromir: One does not simply walk into Mordor. Its black gates are guarded by more than just orcs. There is evil there that does not sleep. And the great Eye is ever watchful. It is a barren wasteland. Riddled with fire and ash and dust. The very air you breathe is a poisonous fume. Not with ten thousand men could you do this. It is folly!
Legolas: Have you heard nothing Lord Elrond has said? The Ring must be destroyed!
Gimli: And I suppose you think you're the one to do it?!
Boromir: And if we fail, what then?! What happens when Sauron takes back what is his?!
Gimli: I will be dead before I see the Ring in the hands of an elf!
Gimli: Never trust an elf!
Gandalf: Do you not understand that while we bicker amongst ourselves, Sauron's power grows?! None can escape it!
Ring: One Ring to rule them all, One Ring to find them, One Ring to bring them all and in the Darkness bind them
Frodo: I will take it! I will take it!
Frodo: I will take the Ring to Mordor. Though I do not know the way.
Gandalf: I will help you bear this burden Frodo Baggins, as long as it is yours to bear.
Aragorn: If by my life or death, I can protect you, I will.
Aragorn: You have my sword.
Legolas: And you have my bow. 
Gimli: And my axe! 
Boromir: You carry the fates of us all little one. If this is indeed the will of the council, then Gondor will see it done.
Sam: Eh! Mr. Frodo is not going anywhere without me!
Elrond: No indeed, it is hardly possible to separate you even when he is summoned to a secret council and you are not.
Merry: Wait! We are coming too!
Merry: You'd have to send us home tied up in a sack to stop us!
Pippin: Anyway you need people of intelligence on this sort of mission, quest... thing.
Merry: Well that rules you out Pip.
Elrond: Nine companions... So be it! You shall be the Fellowship of the Ring!
Pippin: Great! Where are we going?
Elrond: She wanted to protect her child. She thought that in Rivendell you would be safe.
Elrond: In her heart your mother knew you'd be hunted all your life but you'd never escape your fate.  The skill of the elves can reforge the sword of Kings, but only you have the power to wield it.
Aragorn: I do not want that power, I have never wanted it
Elrond: You are the last of that blood line, there is no other
Bilbo: My old sword, Sting! Here! Take it, take it!
Frodo: It’s so light! 
Bilbo: Yes...yeah made by the elves you know. The blade glows blue when orcs are close. And its times like that my lad, when you'll have to be extra careful!
Bilbo: Here’s a pretty thing Mithril! As light as a feather! And as hard as dragon scales! Let me see you put it on. Go on.
Bilbo: Oh...My old Ring! Oh well... I should very much like, to hold it again, one last time.
Bilbo: I’m sorry I brought this upon you my boy...I’m sorry that you must carry this burden. I’m sorry for everything!
Elrond: The Ringbearer is setting out on the quest of Mount Doom and you who travel with him, no oath nor bond is laid to go further than you will. Farewell. Hold to your purpose and may the blessings of elves, and men, and all free folk go with you.
Gandalf: The Fellowship awaits the Ringbearer. 
Frodo: Mordor, Gandalf, is it left or right ?
Gandalf: Left.
Gandalf: We must hold this course west of the Misty Mountains for forty days. If our luck holds the Gap of Rohan will still be open to us. From there our road turns east to Mordor.
Boromir: Good, very good.
Aragorn: Move your feet. 
Merry: That’s good, Pippin. 
Pippin: Thanks. 
Boromir: Faster.
Gimli: If anyone was to ask for my opinion, which I note they’re not, I’d say we were taking the long way round. Gandalf, we could pass through the Mines of Moria. My cousin Balin would give us a royal welcome. 
Gandalf: No Gimli, I would not take the roads through Moria unless I had no other choice.
Boromir: Sorry! 
Merry: Get Him!
Pippin: For the Shire! 
Pippin: Hold him! Hold him Merry!
Merry: He got my arm! He got my arm!
Sam: What is that? 
Gimli: Nothing, it’s just a whiff of cloud. 
Boromir: It’s moving fast... against the wind. 
Legolas: Crebain from Dunland! 
Aragorn: Hide! 
Boromir: Hurry!
Aragorn: Frodo! Take cover!
Gandalf: Spies of Saruman! The passage south is being watched. We must take the Pass of Caradhras. 
Aragorn: Frodo! 
Aragorn: Boromir.
Boromir: It is a strange fate we should suffer so much fear and doubt over so small a thing... such a little thing.
Aragorn: Boromir! Give the Ring to Frodo. 
Boromir: As you wish. I care not.
Saruman: So, Gandalf, you try to lead them over Caradhras. And if that fails, where then will you go? If the mountain defeats you will you risk a more dangerous road?
Saruman: Wake up cruel Redhorn! May your horn be bloodstained!
Legolas: There is a fell voice on the air. 
Gandalf: Its Saruman!
Aragorn: He’s trying to bring down the mountain! Gandalf, we must turn back! 
Gandalf: No!
Gandalf: Sleep Caradhras, be still, lie still, hold your wrath!
Saruman: Wake up cruel Redhorn! May your bloodstained horn fall upon enemy heads!
Boromir: We must get off the mountain! Make for the Gap of Rohan and take the west road to my city!
Aragorn: The Gap of Rohan takes us too close to Isengard!
Gimli: If we cannot pass over a mountain, let us go under it. Let us go through the mines of Moria.
Saruman: Moria. You fear to go into those mines. The dwarves delved too greedily and too deep. You know what they awoke in the darkness of Khazad-dum: Shadow and Flame!
Gandalf: Let the Ring bearer decide.
Boromir: We cannot stay here! This will be the death of the hobbits!
Gandalf: Frodo? 
Frodo: We will go through the mines.
Gandalf: So be it.
Gandalf: Frodo, come and help an old man. How's your shoulder?
Frodo: Better than it was
Gandalf: and the Ring? You feel its power growing don't you. I've felt it too.  You must be careful now.  Evil will be drawn to you from outside the Fellowship and I fear from within.
Frodo: Who then do I trust ?
Gandalf: You must trust to yourself. Trust your own strength. 
Frodo: What do you mean? 
Gandalf: There are many powers in this world for good or for evil. Some are greater than I am and against some I have not yet been tested
Gimli: The walls of Moria!
Gimli: Dwarf doors are invisible when closed.
Gandalf: Yes, Gimli, their own masters cannot find them, if their secrets are forgotten.
Legolas: Why doesn't that surprise me?
Gandalf: Ah... now let me see... Ithildin... it mirrors only starlight and moonlight.
Gandalf: It reads The doors of Durin Lord of Moria. Speak friend and enter.
Merry: What do you suppose that means? 
Gandalf: Oh it’s quite simple. If you are a friend you speak the password and the doors will open.
Gandalf: Gate of the Elves open now for me!
Gandalf: Doorway of the Dwarf-folk, listen to the word of my tongue.
Pippin: Nothing's happening
Gandalf: I once knew every spell in all the tongues of elves, men and orcs
Pippin: What're you going to do then ?
Gandalf: Knock your head against these doors Peregrin Took! and if that does not shatter them and I'm allowed a little peace from foolish questions I will try to find the opening words.
Gandalf: Gate of Elves, listen to my word, Threshold of Dwarves
Aragorn: The mines are no place for a pony, even one so brave as Bill. 
Sam: Buh-bye Bill
Aragorn: Go on, Bill, go on. Don’t worry Sam, he knows the way home. 
Aragorn: Do not disturb the water. 
Gandalf: Oh, it’s useless!
Frodo: It’s a riddle. Speak friend and enter. What’s the Elvish word for friend? 
Gandalf: Mellon
Gimli: Soon Mr Elf you will enjoy the fabled hospitality of the dwarves. Roaring fires, malt beer, ripe meat off the bone. This my friend is the home of my cousin Balin and they call it a Mine!
Gimli: A Mine!
Boromir: This is no mine, it’s a tomb!
Gimli: Oh! No! No!
Legolas: Goblins!
Boromir: We make for the Gap of Rohan. We should never have come here.
Boromir: Now get out of here, get out! 
Sam: Strider! Get off him!
Merry: Aragorn!
Merry: Frodo!
Gandalf: Into the Mines!
Boromir: Legolas! Aim for his eye!
Gandalf: We now have but one choice. We must face the long dark of Moria. Be on your guard. There are older and fouler things than orcs in the deep places of the world.
Gandalf: he wealth of Moria is not in gold, or jewels, but Mithril
Gandalf: Bilbo had a shirt of mithril rings that Thorin gave him
Gimli: Aww that was a Kingly gift
Gandalf: Yes.  I never told him, but its worth was greater than the value of The Shire!
Merry: Pippin!
Gandalf: I've no memory of this place
Pippin:	Are we lost ?
Merry: No
Pippin: I think we are
Sam: Ssh! Gandalf's thinking 
Pippin: Merry!
Merry: What!
Pippin: I'm hungry
Frodo: There's something down there
Gandalf: It’s Gollum. 
Frodo: Gollum?
Gandalf: He’s been following us for three days. 
Frodo: He escaped the dungeons of Barad-Dur! 
Gandalf: Escaped or was set loose and now the Ring has drawn him here He won't ever be rid of his need for it.  He hates and loves the Ring, as he hates and loves himself. Smeagol's life is a sad story. Yes he was once called, before the Ring found him. Before it drove him mad
Frodo: It’s a pity Bilbo didn’t kill him when he had the chance! 
Gandalf: Pity? It was pity that stayed Bilbo’s hand. Many that live deserve death, and some that die deserve life. Can you give it to them, Frodo? Do not be too eager to deal out death and judgement Even the very wise cannot see all ends. My heart tells me that Gollum has some part to play, yet for good or ill.... before this is over. The pity of Bilbo, may rule the fate of many
Gandalf: Do not be too eager to deal out death in judgement. Even the very wise can not see all ends. My heart tells me that Gollum has some part to play yet, for good or ill, before this is over. The pity of Bilbo may rule the fate of many.
Frodo: I wish the Ring had never come to me. I wish none of this had happened.
Gandalf: So do all who live to see such times, but that is not for them to decide. All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given to us. There are other forces at work in this world Frodo besides the will of evil. Bilbo was meant to find the Ring, in which case you also were meant to have it. And that is an encouraging thought. 
Gandalf: Ah! It’s that way.
Merry: He’s remembered!
Gandalf: No, but the air doesn’t smell so foul down here. If in doubt, Meriadoc, always follow your nose.
Gandalf: Let me risk a little more light.
Gandalf: Behold the great realm and dwarf city of Dwarrowdelf. 
Sam: Now there’s an eye opener and no mistake.
Gimli: 	Oh!
Gandalf: Gimli!
Gimli: No! No! 
Gandalf: Here lies Balin, son of Fundin, Lord of Moria. He is dead then. Its as I feared. 
Legolas: We must move on, we cannot linger!
Gandalf: They have taken the Bridge and the second hall. We have barred the gates, but cannot hold them for long. The ground shakes. Drums. Drums in the deep. We cannot get out. A shadow moves in the dark. We cannot get out. They are coming.
Gandalf: Fool of a Took! Throw yourself in next time and rid us of your stupidity! 
Sam: Frodo!
Legolas: Orcs!
Aragorn: Get back! Stay close to Gandalf!
Boromir: They have a cave troll.
Gimli: Agh! Let them come! There is one dwarf yet in Moria that still draws breath!
Aragorn: Pull!
Sam: I think I’m getting the hang of this.
Frodo: Aragorn? Aragorn!
Aragorn: Frodo!
Sam: Frodo! 
Sam: Frodo!
Aragorn: Oh no!
Sam: He’s alive!
Frodo: I’m all right, I’m not hurt.
Aragorn: You should be dead! That spear would have skewered a wild boar. 
Gandalf: I think there’s more to this hobbit than meets the eye.
Gimli: Mithril! You are full of surprises Master Baggins.
Gandalf: To the bridge of Khazad-dum!
Boromir: What is this new devilment?
Gandalf: A Balrog, a demon of the ancient world. This foe is beyond any of you. Run!
Aragorn: Gandalf.
Gandalf: Lead them on Aragorn. The bridge is near. Do as I say! Swords are no more use here.
Legolas: Gandalf.
Boromir: Merry! Pippin!
Aragorn: Sam. 
Gimli: Nobody tosses a dwarf.
Gimli: Mind the beard!
Aragorn: Steady! Hold on! Hang on! Lean forward!
Legolas: Come on!
Gandalf: Over the bridge! Fly!
Gandalf: You cannot pass! 
Frodo: Gandalf!
Gandalf: I am the servant of the secret fire, wielder of the flame of Anor.
Gandalf: The dark fire will not avail you! Flame of Udun!
Gandalf: Go back to the shadow!
Gandalf: You shall not pass!
Boromir: No!
Frodo: Gandalf! 
Gandalf: Fly you fools!
Frodo: No!
Boromir: Aragorn!
Aragorn: Legolas, get them up.
Boromir: Give them a moment for pities sake. 
Aragorn: By nightfall these hills will be swarming with orcs! We must reach the Woods of Lothlorien. Come Boromir, Legolas, Gimli, get them up. On your feet Sam.
Aragorn: Frodo? Frodo!
Gimli: Stay close young hobbits! They say there’s a great sorceress lives in these woods, an elf-witch of terrible power. All who look upon her, fall under her spell...
Galadriel: Frodo....
Gimli: ... and are never seen again.
Galadriel: ...Your coming to us... is as the footsteps of doom. You bring great evil here Ring bearer!
Sam: Mr. Frodo?
Gimli: Well, here is one dwarf she won't ensnare so easily. I have the eyes of a hawk and the ears of a fox!
Gimli: Oh...
Haldir: The dwarf breathes so loud we could have shot him in the dark.
Haldir: Welcome Legolas, son of Thranduil.
Legolas: Our Fellowship stands in your debt, Haldir of Lórien.
Aragorn: Aragorn of Dúnedain, you are known to us.
Aragorn: Haldir.
Gimli: So much for the legendary courtesy of the Elves! Speak words we can also understand! 
Haldir: We have not had dealings with the Dwarves since the Dark Days.
Gimli: And you know what this Dwarf says to that? I spit upon your grave! 
Aragorn: That was not so courteous.
Haldir: You bring great evil with you. You can go no further. 
Aragorn: We need your protection. The road is fell! I wish we may come with you. Please, understand, we need your support! The road is very dangerous
Boromir: Gandalf's death was not in vain. nor would he have you give up hope. You carry a heavy burden, Frodo. Don't carry the weight of the dead
Haldir: You will follow me. 
Haldir: Cares Galeton. The heart of Elvendom on earth. Realm of the Lord Celeborn and of Galadriel, Lady of Light.
Celeborn: The enemy knows you have entered here. What hope you had in secrecy is now gone.
Celeborn: Eight there are here, yet nine there were set out from Rivendell. Tell me, where is Gandalf? For I much desire to speak with him. I can no longer see him from afar.
Galadriel: Gandalf the Grey did not pass the borders of this land. He has fallen into shadow. 
Legolas: He was taken by both shadow and flame. A Balrog of Morgoth. For we went needlessly into the net of Moria.
Galadriel: Needless were none of the deeds of Gandalf in life. We do not yet know his full purpose.
Galadriel: Do not let the great emptiness of Khazad-dûm fill your heart Gimli, son of Gloin. For the world has grown full of peril and in all lands love is now mingled with grief.
Celeborn: What now becomes of this fellowship? Without Gandalf, hope is lost.
Galadriel: The quest stands upon the edge of a knife. Stray but a little and it will fail to the ruin of all.
Galadriel: Yet hope remains while the company is true.
Galadriel: Do not let your hearts be troubled. Go now and rest for you are weary with sorrow and much toil. Tonight you will sleep in peace. Welcome Frodo of the Shire. One who has seen the Eye!
Legolas: A lament for Gandalf.
Merry: What do they say about him?
Legolas: I have not the heart to tell you. For me the grief is still too near.
Sam: I bet they don't mention his fireworks. There should be a verse about them.
Sam: The finest rockets ever seen. They burst in stars of blue and green or after thunder, silver showers came falling like a rain of flowers Oh, that doesn't do them justice by a long road.
Aragorn: Take some rest. These borders are well protected.
Boromir: I will find no rest here. I heard her voice inside my head. She spoke of my father and the fall of Gondor. She said to me even now there is hope left. But I cannot see it. It is long since we had any hope.
Boromir: My father is a noble man, but his rule is failing. And now our...our people lose faith. He looks to me to make things right and I would do it. I would see the glory of Gondor restored. Have you ever seen it Aragorn? White tower of Ecthelion, glimmering like a spike of pearl and silver. It's banners caught high in the morning breeze. Have you ever been called home by the clear ringing of silver trumpets?
Aragorn: I have seen the White City, long ago.
Boromir: One day, our paths will lead us there. And the tower guards shall take up the call: The Lords of Gondor have returned!
Galadriel: Will you look into the mirror?
Frodo: What will I see?
Galadriel: Even the wisest cannot tell. For the mirror shows many things.
Galadriel: Things that were, things that are and some things... that have not yet come to pass.
Galadriel: I know what it is you saw, for it is also in my mind. It is what will come to pass if you should fail. The Fellowship is breaking. It has already begun. He will try to take the Ring. You know of whom I speak. One by one it will destroy them all.
Frodo: If you ask it of me, I will give you the One Ring.
Galadriel: You offer it to me freely. I do not deny that my heart has greatly desired this.
Galadriel: In place OF A DARK LORD, YOU WILL HAVE A QUEEN! NOT DARK BUT BEAUTIFUL AND TERRIBLE AS THE DAWN! TREACHEROUS AS THE SEA! STRONGER THAN THE FOUNDATIONS OF THE EARTH! ALL SHALL LOVE ME AND DISPAIR!
Galadriel: I pass the test! I will diminish, and go into the West, and remain Galadriel.
Frodo: I cannot do this alone.
Galadriel: You are a Ring bearer, Frodo. To bear a Ring of power is to be alone. This is Nenya, the ring of Adamant. And I am its keeper. This task was appointed to you and if you do not find a way, no one will.
Frodo: Then I know what I must do. It's just... I'm afraid to do it.
Galadriel: Even the smallest person can change the course of the future.
Saruman: Do you know how the Orcs first came into being? They were elves once, taken by the dark powers. Tortured and mutilated: a ruined and terrible form of life. Now...perfected my fighting Uruk-Hai. Whom do you serve?
Lurtz: Saruman!
Saruman: Hunt them down. Do not stop until they are found. You do not know pain. You do not know fear. You will taste man flesh!
Saruman: One of the halflings carries something of great value. Bring them to me alive and unspoiled. Kill the others!
Celeborn: Never before have we clad strangers in the garb of our own people. May these cloaks help shield you from unfriendly eyes.
Legolas: Lembas. Elvish waybread. One small bite is enough to fill the stomach of a grown man.
Merry: How many did you eat?
Pippin: Four.
Celeborn: Every league you travel south, the danger will increase. Mordor orcs now hold the eastern shore of the Anduin. Nor will you find safety on the western bank. Strange creatures bearing the mark of the white hand have been seen on our borders. Seldom do orcs journey in the open under the sun, yet these have done so. By river you have the chance of outrunning the enemy to the falls of Rauros.
Galadriel: My gift for you, Legolas, is a bow of the Galadhrim. Worthy of the skill of our woodland kin. These are the daggers of the Noldorin. They have already seen service in war. Do not fear, young Peregrin Took. You will find your courage. And for you, Samwise Gamgee.....Elven rope made of hithlain.
Sam: Thank you, my lady. Have you run out of those nice, shiny daggers?
Galadriel: And what gift would a dwarf ask of the elves?
Gimli: Nothing. Except to look upon the lady of the Galadhrim one last time for she is more fair than all the jewels beneath the earth.
Gimli: Actually...There was one thing. No, no, I couIdn't. It's quite impossible. Stupid to ask.
Galadriel: I have nothing greater to give than the gift you already bear.
Galadriel: For her love, I fear the grace of Arwen Evenstar ... will diminish.
Aragorn: I would have her leave these shores, and be with her people. I would have her take the ship to Valinor.
Galadriel: That choice is yet before her. You have your own choice to make, Aragorn.
Galadriel: To rise above the height of all your fathers since the days of Elendil or to fall into darkness with all that is left of your kin.
Galadriel: Farewell.
Galadriel: There is much you have yet to do. We shall not meet again, Elessar.
Galadriel: Farewell, Frodo Baggins. I give you the light of Earendil, our most beloved star.
Galadriel: May it be a light for you in dark places, when all other lights go out.
Gimli: I have taken my worst wound at this parting having looked my last upon that which is fairest. Henceforth I will call nothing fair unless it be her gift to me.
Galadriel: What was her gift?
Gimli: I asked her for one hair from her golden head. She gave me three.
Aragorn: Gollum. He has tracked us since Moria. I had hoped we would lose him on the river. But he's too clever a waterman.
Boromir: And if he alerts the enemy to our whereabouts, it will make the crossing even more dangerous.
Sam: Have some food, Mr. Frodo.
Frodo: No, Sam.
Sam: You haven’t eaten anything all day. You’re not sleeping, neither. Don’t think I haven’t noticed. 
Sam: Mr. Frodo
Frodo: I’m all right.
Sam: But you’re not. I’m here to help you. I promised Gandalf that I would. 
Frodo: You can’t help me, Sam. Not this time. Get some sleep. 
Boromir: Minas Tirith is the safer road. You know that. From there we can regroup. Strike out for Mordor from a place of strength. 
Aragorn: There is no strength in Gondor that can avail us. 
Boromir: You were quick enough to trust the Elves. 
Boromir: Have you so little faith in your own people? Yes, there is weakness. There is frailty. But there is courage also, and honor to be found in Men. But you will not see that.
Boromir: You are afraid!
Boromir: All your life, you have hidden in the shadows.
Boromir: Scared of who you are, of what you are.
Aragorn: I will not lead the Ring within a hundred leagues of your city. 
Aragorn: Frodo, the Argonath! Long have I desired to look upon the kings of old my kin.
Aragorn: We cross the lake at nightfall. Hide the boats and continue on foot. We approach Mordor from the north.
Gimli: Oh, yes?! It's just a simple matter of finding our way through Emyn Muil? An impassable labyrinth of razor sharp rocks! And after that, it gets even better! Festering, stinking marshlands far as the eye can see!
Aragorn: That is our road. I suggest you take some rest and recover your strength master dwarf.
Gimli: Recover my...
Legolas: We should leave now.
Aragorn: No. Orcs patrol the eastern shore. We must wait for cover of darkness.
Legolas: It is not the eastern shore that worries me. A shadow and a threat has been growing in my mind. Something draws near, I can feel it!
Gimli: Recover strength! Pay no heed to that.
Merry: Where's Frodo?
Boromir: None of us should wander alone, you least of all. So much depends on you. Frodo?
Boromir: I know why you seek solitude. You suffer; I see it day by day. You sure you do not suffer needlessly? There are other ways, Frodo, other paths that we might take.
Frodo: I know what you would say. And it would seem like wisdom but for the warning in my heart.
Boromir: Warning? Against what? We're all afraid, Frodo. But to let that fear drive us to destroy what hope we have. Don't you see that is madness?
Frodo: There is no other way!
Boromir: I ask only for the strength to defend my people! If you would but lend me the Ring...
Frodo: No. 
Boromir: Why do you recoil? I am no thief.
Frodo: You are not yourself.
Boromir: What chance do you think you have? They will find you! They will take the Ring and you will beg for death before the end!
Boromir: You fool!
Boromir: It is not yours save by unhappy chance. It could have been mine! It should be mine! Give it to me!
Boromir: Give me the Ring!
Boromir: I see your mind. You will take the Ring to Sauron! You will betray us! You go to your death and the death of us all! Curse you! Curse you! And all the halflings!
Boromir: Frodo?...Frodo?...what have I done?...please...Frodo!
Boromir: I'm sorry, Frodo...Frodo...
Sauron: They will fall!
Aragorn: Frodo?
Frodo: It has taken Boromir.
Aragorn: Where is the Ring?
Frodo: Stay away! 
Aragorn: Frodo!
Aragorn: I swore to protect you!
Frodo: Can you protect me from yourself?!
Frodo: Would you destroy it?
Ring: Aragorn...Aragorn...Elessar...
Aragorn: I would have gone with you to the end, into the very fires of Mordor.
Frodo: I know. Look after the others, especially Sam. He will not understand.
Aragorn: Go Frodo! Run. Run!
Sam: Mr.Frodo!
Lurtz: Find the Halfling! Find the Halfling! 
Merry: Frodo!
Merry: Hide here, quick!
Pippin: Come on!
Pippin: What’s he doing?
Merry: He's leaving. 
Pippin: No! 
Merry: Pippin! 
Merry: Run Frodo! Go!
Merry: Hey! Hey you! Over here!
Pippin: Hey!
Merry: Over here!
Pippin: This way!
Pippin: Its working! 
Merry: I know its working! Run!
Legolas: The Horn of Gondor!
Aragorn: Boromir!
Boromir: Run! Run!
Boromir: They took the little ones.
Aragorn: Be still.
Boromir: Frodo, where is Frodo? 
Aragorn: I let Frodo go.
Boromir: Then you did what I could not. I tried to take the Ring from him. 
Aragorn: The Ring is beyond our reach now. 
Boromir: Forgive me, I did not see it. I have failed you all. 
Aragorn: No, Boromir, you fought bravely! You have kept your honor. 
Boromir: Leave it! It is over. The world of men will fall, and all will come to darkness... and my city to ruin. 
Aragorn: I do not know what strength is in my blood, but I swear to you I will not let the white city fall, nor our people fail!
Boromir: Our people? Our people.
Boromir: I would have followed you my brother, my captain, my king!
Aragorn: Be at peace, son of Gondor.
Aragorn: They will look for his coming from the White Tower ... but he will not return.
Sam: Mr. Frodo!
Frodo: I wish the Ring had never come to me. I wish none of this had happened. 
Gandalf: So do all who live to see such times but that is not for them to decide. All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given us.
Sam: Not alone, Frodo. Mr. Frodo!
Frodo: No Sam!
Frodo: Go back Sam! I’m going to Mordor alone. 
Sam: Of course you are, and I’m coming with you! 
Frodo: You can’t swim!
Frodo: Sam!
Sam: I made a promise, Mr. Frodo. A promise! Don’t you leave him Samwise Gamgee. And I don’t mean to! I don’t mean to.
Frodo: Oh Sam! Come on then...
Legolas: If we are quick, we will catch Frodo and Sam before nightfall.
Legolas: You mean not to follow them?
Aragorn: Frodo’s fate is no longer in our hands.
Gimli: Then it has all been in vain! The Fellowship has failed.
Aragorn: Not if we hold true to each other. We will not abandon Merry and Pippin to torment and death. Not while we have strength left. Leave all that can be spared behind. We travel light. Let’s hunt some orc!
Gimli: Yes! Haha!
Frodo: Mordor. I hope the others find a safer road.
Sam: Strider will look after them. 
Frodo: I don’t suppose we’ll ever see them again. 
Sam: We may yet, Mr. Frodo. We may.
Frodo: Sam, I’m glad you’re with me. 
